# Detection-of-Parkinsons-Disease
The primary cause of Parkinson disease, a neurodegenerative ailment that affects the nervous system, is a decline in dopamine levels in the forebrain. It is a chronic degenerative condition that progresses over time, causing new symptoms to appear. This happens with progressive neuronal loss in the substantia nigra of brain. People with PD are unable to perform their tasks like a normal human. Although clinical examinations took into account a lot of data with a variety of features, it can still be challenging to determine if a person has PD or not based on the type of data. Feature selection approaches help to resolve this problem. In this Python machine learning project, we have developed a model using an XGB Classifier using the Python packages scikit-learn, numpy, pandas, and xg boost. After loading the data, obtaining the features and labels, scaling the features, splitting the dataset, and creating an XGB Classifier, we determined the model's accuracy.
It is a dysfunction of the neural system that is classified as a sickness. Parkinson's disease has an impact on how people move. Approximately 1 million persons worldwide now are afflicted with this illness. Dopamine-producing neurons in the brain become neurodegenerative as a result of this condition. The human body can be used to identify Parkinson's symptoms using the ML. The XG Boost, a novel machine learning algorithm, will create the project. A new machine learning algorithm called XG Boost was created with performance and speed in mind. Extreme Gradient Boosting, often known as XG Boost, is a decision tree-based algorithm. The XGB Classifier will be imported into this project from the XG Boost Library is a scikit-learn API implementation for XG Boost categorization to create a model that can correctly identify someone who has Parkinson's disease.
